I'm going to close this demo by showing you some
third-party tools that are useful in this space.
One is Piriform Speccy.
This is a piece of freeware that in a nice,
graphical way, shows you what's going on in terms of your hardware,
your RAM, your usage, your graphics card,
your storage subsystem, your audio.
It's a nice way to get pretty interactive output as a sanity check
when you're looking for hardware on a machine.
I'm sure you could get that to run as a standalone
program that you could put on, say,
a USB stick that you keep in your technician toolkit.
Another tool that's been around for a long time is CPU-Z,
that's C-P-U -Z, and this gets really deep into inspecting your motherboard,
telling you all about your installed processor,
its caches, motherboard metadata, memory,
graphics, even some performance benchmarking information.
Really nice tool.
One more tool is Sysinternals Process Explorer.
What I've done is downloaded the executable.
It's just a standalone executable called Proc, P-r-o-c, exp64.
exe.
I also downloaded sigcheck64.
exe and kept them in the same location,
and the great benefit there is that we can load up our Process Explorer.
If you've never seen this before, this is like Task Manager on steroids.
You can bring out some additional columns, verify image signatures.
It can actually check whether the code's been digitally signed.
This shows all your running processes by the way,
and whether or not they've been signed could be indicative of
malware versus software that you can trust,
and you can also display virus totals.
VirusTotal, what happens is, if you choose that,
let's see, Options VirusTotal, Submit,
it'll send hashes for unknown executable processes,
and if it recognizes the hash,
compares it against 60-odd different malware scanners and tells
you if it raises an alarm with any of them.
And fortunately, you see 0 for all of these entries,
which makes me feel pretty darn good.
But we can go very far down the rabbit hole with this.
I thought it was apropos in our discussion of inventorying
hardware and software in Windows 10 because this leaves
absolutely nothing to the imagination, and you can get very deep.
If for instance, you run an inventory,
you detect some software that's nonstandard or that you didn't expect,
so-called a shadow IT installation,
and then with something like Process Explorer you can dig in and find out exactly what that executable is doing on your system.